# Numerical Particle Tracking Model to Estimate Fine Sediments' Deposition in an Idealized Sand Dune

This folder provides the code necessary to run a numerical particle-tracking model in an homogeneous sandbed with periodical boundary conditions and perform a basic results popost processing. Moreover, this folder is the Supplementary Information provided for the paper "Fine Sediment Deposition and Filtration Under Losing and Gaining Conditions: A Particle-Tracking Model Approach" 
(this information has to be completed when the paper gets accepted by the journal)

The code is based in the numerical Particle Tracking model by Li et al. 2017 (1) that estimates nitrogen uptake in arctic rivers, modified and programmed to estimate fine particles' deposition in an idealized homogeneous bed with steady free surface flow conditions, similar to the ones proposed by Elliott and Brooks in 1997 (2) and Packman et al. 2000 (3). 

## Code readme and instructions

### Particle tracking code
The main part of the numerical particle tracking model is located in the script PTFunct.m. This function runs in Octave and Matlab and its inputs are the groundwater velocities and the filtration coefficient of the bed. Other physical parameters can be changed inside the code. The aforementioned code generates a .mat file that sotres particles' coordinates and various parameters that can be found in the final part of the PTFunct.m script. 

The script PTfunct.m uses as auxiliary functions the scripts h_m.m that estimates the mean head over the dune, velocity.m that stores the velocity profiles in the 2D domain. Hence, it allows to modify the velocity profiles if desired by the user. The script hyd_cond.m can be used to modify the profile of hydrualic conductivities and it is open for anyone to implement it. Besides, the function qinterp2.m is used to interpolate velocity values in a 2D field. This script is used because matlab's qinterp function is not as efficient as the user programmed qinterp2.

For the sake of the paper submission, the script Multirun.m was used to run recursively the Particle Tracking function (PTFunct.m). Indeed, the user can input the velocities and filtration coefficients in the Multirun.m script and make it run. Nonetheless, all of the files have to be located in the same folder in order to make it run.

Be aware that the .mat files generated by the particle tracking function are heavy ()

### Counting and grouping particles




## References
(1) Li, A., Aubeneau, A. F., Bolster, D., Tank, J. L., & Packman, A. I.(2017, aug). Covariation in patterns of turbulence-driven hyporheic flow and denitrification enhances reach-scale nitrogen removal.Water Resources Research,53(8),6927–6944. doi: 10.1002/2016WR019949

(2) Elliott, A. H., & Brooks, N. H.(1997a, jan).Transfer of nonsorbing solutes to a streambed with bed forms: Laboratory experiments. Water Resources Research,33(1), 137–151.  doi:  10.1029/96WR02783

(3) Packman, A. I., Brooks, N. H., & Morgan, J. J. (2000). A physicochemical model for colloid exchange between a stream and a sand streambed with bed forms. Water Resources Research,36(8), 2351. doi: 10.1029/2000WR900059
